doc/tu.md, before:

# Totally Unimodular Matrices # {#tu}

A matrix \f$ M \in \mathbb{Z}^{m \times n} \f$ is **totally unimodular** if all its square submatrices have a determinant in \f$ \{-1,0,+1\} \f$.
Here, a submatrix does not need to be contiguous, i.e., the matrix \f$M = \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \f$ is not totally unimodular since the submatrix indexed by rows \f$ \{1, 2 \} \f$ and columns \f$ \{ 1,3 \} \f$ has determinant 2.
In particular, every totally unimodular matrix has only entries in \f$ \{-1,0,+1\} \f$ as these are the 1-by-1 submatrices.


## Recognizing Totally Unimodular Matrices  ##

The command

    cmr-tu IN-MAT [OPTION...]

determines whether the matrix given in file `IN-MAT` is totally unimodular.

**Options:**
  - `-i FORMAT`  Format of file `IN-MAT`, among `dense` for \ref dense-matrix and `sparse` for \ref sparse-matrix; default: dense.
  - `-D OUT-DEC` Write a decomposition tree of the underlying regular matroid to file `OUT-DEC`; default: skip computation.
  - `-N NON-SUB` Write a minimal non-totally-unimodular submatrix to file `NON-SUB`; default: skip computation.
  - `-s`         Print statistics about the computation to stderr.

**Advanced options:**
  - `--no-direct-graphic`  Check only 3-connected matrices for regularity.
  - `--no-series-parallel` Do not allow series-parallel operations in decomposition tree.

If `IN-MAT` is `-` then the matrix is read from stdin.
If `OUT-DEC` or `NON-SUB` is `-` then the decomposition tree (resp. the submatrix) is written to stdout.

## Algorithms ##

The implemented default recognition algorithm is based on [Implementation of a unimodularity test](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12532-012-0048-x) by Matthias Walter and Klaus Truemper (Mathematical Programming Computation, 2013).
It first runs \ref camion to reduce the question to that of [recognizing regular matroids](\ref regular).
Please cite the paper in case the implementation contributed to your research:

    @Article{WalterT13,
      author    = {Walter, Matthias and Truemper, Klaus},
      title     = {Implementation of a unimodularity test},
      journal   = {Mathematical Programming Computation},
      year      = {2013},
      volume    = {5},
      number    = {1},
      pages     = {57--73},
      issn      = {1867-2949},
      doi       = {10.1007/s12532-012-0048-x},
      publisher = {Springer-Verlag},
    }

In order to repeat experiments described in the paper above, the function can be parameterized as to use exponential-time algorithms.

  - The first is based on the criterion of Ghouila-Houri and runs in time \f$ \mathcal{O}( (m + n) \cdot 3^{\min(m, n)}) \f$.
  - The second enumerates square [Eulerian submatrices](https://www.ams.org/journals/proc/1965-016-05/S0002-9939-1965-0180568-2/) and runs in time \f$ \mathcal{O}( (m+n) \cdot 2^{ m + n } ) \f$.

## C Interface ##

The corresponding function in the library is

  - CMRtestTotalUnimodularity() tests a matrix for being totally unimodular.

and is defined in \ref tu.h.

Commit message:

Implemented TU test via Eulerian submatrices.

doc/tu.md, after:

# Totally Unimodular Matrices # {#tu}

A matrix \f$ M \in \mathbb{Z}^{m \times n} \f$ is **totally unimodular** if all its square submatrices have a determinant in \f$ \{-1,0,+1\} \f$.
Here, a submatrix does not need to be contiguous, i.e., the matrix \f$M = \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \f$ is not totally unimodular since the submatrix indexed by rows \f$ \{1, 2 \} \f$ and columns \f$ \{ 1,3 \} \f$ has determinant 2.
In particular, every totally unimodular matrix has only entries in \f$ \{-1,0,+1\} \f$ as these are the 1-by-1 submatrices.


## Recognizing Totally Unimodular Matrices  ##

The command

    cmr-tu IN-MAT [OPTION...]

determines whether the matrix given in file `IN-MAT` is totally unimodular.

**Options:**
  - `-i FORMAT`  Format of file `IN-MAT`, among `dense` for \ref dense-matrix and `sparse` for \ref sparse-matrix; default: dense.
  - `-D OUT-DEC` Write a decomposition tree of the underlying regular matroid to file `OUT-DEC`; default: skip computation.
  - `-N NON-SUB` Write a minimal non-totally-unimodular submatrix to file `NON-SUB`; default: skip computation.

**Advanced options:**
  - `--stats`              Print statistics about the computation to stderr.
  - `--time-limit LIMIT`   Allow at most LIMIT seconds for the computation.
  - `--no-direct-graphic`  Check only 3-connected matrices for regularity.
  - `--no-series-parallel` Do not allow series-parallel operations in decomposition tree.
  - `--algo ALGO`          Use algorithm from {decomposition, submatrix, partition}; default: decomposition.

If `IN-MAT` is `-` then the matrix is read from stdin.
If `OUT-DEC` or `NON-SUB` is `-` then the decomposition tree (resp. the submatrix) is written to stdout.

## Algorithms ##

The implemented default recognition algorithm is based on [Implementation of a unimodularity test](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12532-012-0048-x) by Matthias Walter and Klaus Truemper (Mathematical Programming Computation, 2013).
It first runs \ref camion to reduce the question to that of [recognizing regular matroids](\ref regular).
Please cite the paper in case the implementation contributed to your research:

    @Article{WalterT13,
      author    = {Walter, Matthias and Truemper, Klaus},
      title     = {Implementation of a unimodularity test},
      journal   = {Mathematical Programming Computation},
      year      = {2013},
      volume    = {5},
      number    = {1},
      pages     = {57--73},
      issn      = {1867-2949},
      doi       = {10.1007/s12532-012-0048-x},
      publisher = {Springer-Verlag},
    }

In order to repeat experiments described in the paper above, the function can be parameterized as to use exponential-time algorithms.

  - The first is based on the criterion of Ghouila-Houri and runs in time \f$ \mathcal{O}( (m + n) \cdot 3^{\min(m, n)}) \f$.
  - The second enumerates square [Eulerian submatrices](https://www.ams.org/journals/proc/1965-016-05/S0002-9939-1965-0180568-2/) and runs in time \f$ \mathcal{O}( (m+n) \cdot 2^{ m + n } ) \f$.

## C Interface ##

The corresponding function in the library is

  - CMRtuTest() tests a matrix for being totally unimodular.

and is defined in \ref tu.h.
Its parameters also allow to choose one of the enumeration algorithms with exponential running time instead of the decomposition algorithm.
